---
title: My Dream PC at Replaying Japan
category: blog
date: 2025-09-09
permalink: /MyDreamPCReplayingJapan/
tag: "news"
layout: blog
image1: /assets/Pictures/RJ_MDPC1.JPG
image2: /assets/Pictures/RJ_MDPC2.jpeg
description: "The success of My Dream PC at the Replaying Japan conference!"
---
Just last week the Games of Consequence Lab were thrilled to present at Replaying Japan 2025! The 13th International Japan Game Studies Conference. The conference took place on our own home soil, RMIT University City campus, and brought together some amazing game makers and scholars to reflect on the theme of Homebrew: hobbyist games, hacks and (other) homegrown activities.

Our game My Dream PC was very much at home there as a game inspired by both professional and hobbyist PC builders and engaging with feminine cosiness. The installation is a soft-simulation game where players decorate an empty PC with functional items, like fans and CPU coolers, as well as adorable ornamental figurines of animal characters and house objects.

MDPC has (rightly!) been welcomed and embraced by both academic and creative spaces:

* First showcasing at [Feminine Play](https://www.feminineplay.org), an exhibition as part of Melbourne International Games Week (MIGW) 2024
* Currently installed and playable at the Australian Centre of the Moving Image (ACMI) [Game Lab](https://www.acmi.net.au/whats-on/games-lab-presented-by-big-ant-studios/) until mid-2026
* Subject of a developer talk at [Freeplay: Angles](https://www.freeplay.net.au/parallels25) festival 
* Recently welcomed through demo and design presentation at [Replaying Japan 2025](https://sites.google.com/view/replaying-japan-2025)

In addition to the conference proceedings the game was installed in the demo showcase, where various attendees built variations of their very own virtual PCs, from tropical jungle paradises full of just palm trees and green colour palettes, to hungrier displays of giant pieces of sushi and ramen bowls as a celebration of Japanese cuisine.

## Talking Cosiness + Femininity

Lead designer Charlotte Galvin reflected on her development process guided, initially, by the theme of femininity and Pink PCs before centring more closely on the three key tenets of cosy gameplay; safety, abundance, and softness. Charlotte also complicated cosiness, detailing the limitations of these themes within the design process and game mechanics.

MDPC was astonishingly made in just two months! This lead to a tight scope for the overall project so that proposals for mini-games, larger item sets, and a physical take-home for players were scrapped to dedicate time and energy to the main focus of the game: mood and aesthetic pleasure. Working within femininity and cosiness guided not only the game outcomes, but arguably the design process itself.

In contrast to popular PC building games such as PC Building Simulator which centres gameplay on typically masculine themes such as technical knowledge, power, and utilitarianism, all the while creating closed communities steeped in “toxic geek masculinities” My Dream PC’s design is guided by cosiness and inspired by popular feminine PC building influencers and communities.

__Safety__ is created through the game's low difficulty, simple controls, straightforward object customisation and placement mechanics, and no prerequisites for technical knowledge.

__Abundance__ is realised through diverse customisable assets and the absence of currency systems or monetary values for computer parts—distinguishing it from mainstream cosy games that often reproduce capitalist ideologies.

__Softness__ permeates every aspect of the game design as players are accompanied by lo-fi beats as they browse soft-coloured, kawaii-inspired assets. Physical peripherals, such as a PC tower adorned with flowers, stickers, and figurines, plus a mechanical keyboard with a distinctive soft switch style, mirror the digital customisation options available in-game.

__HOWEVER__, Charlotte also made sure to include critique in her talk by explicitly outlining current trends in cosiness discourse, such as the shallowness of cosy games in genuinely contending with capitalist systems and attitudes ranging from sociopolitical complacency, over-consumption, plastic waste, and focuses on unsustainable growth.

As her first foray into conference presenting, early-career academic Charlotte definitely killed it! The audience was left with plenty to think on and even more follow-up questions!

The conference itself was cosy and full of playful feelings of safety, abundance, and softness; from panels reflecting on the Japanese-ness and nostalgia of summers in Boku no Natsuyasumi 2, devs exploring memory through Zelda ROM hacks, and live demonstrations of  more inclusive versions of the card game Kyogi Karuta.

Replaying Japan 2025 was a collaboration across many universities in Japan, Australia, Canada, United States, and Belgium, and organised wonderfully by James Manning, Lecturer of Digital Design at RMIT University.

## Further Reading

[Andiloro - Comfortably Numb: An Ideological Analysis of Coziness in Videogames](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/380913641_Comfortably_Numb_An_Ideological_Analysis_of_Coziness_in_Videogames)

[celestefleurs - Build your own pink/aesthetic gaming pc tutorial!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Vqk2Bv-820M)

[Harkin - Tech Competency and the Pink pc: Illuminating the iMac G3 and pc Builds](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/383344514_Tech_Competency_and_the_Pink_pc_Illuminating_the_iMac_G3_and_pc_Builds)

[Cosy Game Tenets](https://lostgarden.com/2018/01/24/cozy-games/)